Q. Are variability of procedures  correlated with patient survey
   response
Ans.
    My conclusion is that procedure variability scores show
    a different pattern than variability in patient survey response.
    Correlation is a somewhat difficult question to answer because
    we are essentially comparing one set of procedures
    (using hospital quality measures) and a completely different
    set of procedures which are the topic of the patient surveys.
    The rationale behind the calculation I carry out is explained
    below.

    src      median_stddev   avg_stddev   min_stddev   max_stddev
   Procedure  5.62           7.21         0.14         21.95
   Survey    28.76          29.89        28.33         34.63

   For the procedural variation part of the question I calculate
   the standard deviation of each quality measure

   For the survey part of the question, for each survey topic,
   I look at the achievement score (for details on
   achievement/improvement/dimension scores and other
   survey scoring details, please look at
   "investigations/patient_survey_correlation/hospital_survey_correlation.txt")
   I do not consider either the HCAHPS Base score or HCAHPS Consistency
   score. I calculate the standard deviation for each topic in the
   survey.

   A topic is a particular question or set of questions in the
   survey that are associated with each other. So nurse communication
   is one topic and hospital quietness and cleanliness is another
   topic.

   The difficulty in answering the question is that the hospital
   quality measures reference a certain set of quality-measures/procedures
   whereas the survey topics are on different procedures/issues.

   It is not possible to make an apples to apples correlational study
   since the set of procedures and topics are different.
   Instead what I have done is computed for each procedure/quality measure
   the standard deviation and then calculated the median std-dev, mean std-dev,
   min and max std-dev across all measures.

   Similarly for each topic in the survey I calculated the standard
   devation and then computed the median std-dev, mean std-dev,
   min and max std-dev across all topic.

   I then compared the values of the median/mean/min/max of std-dev
   for both procedure quality measures and survey topics.
   The results show that survey topic variability is relatively
   higher with min and max std-dev varying between 28 and 34
   but the variability is quite consistent ranging only between
   28 and 34.
   On the other hand procedure quality measures show lower
   variability (maximum variability is only 21.95) but the
   variability is less consistent ranging from 0.14
   to 21.95

   The normalized scores used are calculated as per the
   normalization procedure described in in
   investigations/best_hospitals/best_hospitals.txt

   The raw patient survey data consists of survey responses on
   a number of questions and includes an achivement score,
   an improvement score (which is improvment relative to a
   baseline score of a baseline year, several years back)
   and a dimension score which is the higher of the
   achievment and improvement scores. In addition there
   is a HCAHPS Base score (out of 80) and HCAHPS consistency score
   (out of 20) which is used computed from the other survey scores
   and the sum is a score out of 100 which is used by the Government
   as an composite score for each patient survey. I decided to use
   this composite score from every survey as a measure of a hospitals score
   and used the average of the composite scores for each hospital to calculate
   the hospitals rank according to patient surveys.

   After ranking each hospital based on procedure quality measures
  and then ranking each hospital based on survey composite scores, I
  calculated the Pearson correlation coefficient using the Hive corr()
  aggregation function. 
